Release Announcement v2.5 (#25)
trento-project/trento-project.github.io: content/blog/2025/release-2.5/index.md

---
title: "Announcing Trento Version 2.5"

> date: 2025-04-25T10:30:00+02:00

Reviewer: Don't forget to change this to whatever will be the actual date of release.

Author: This has been changed to 11 August 2025 essentially.

hideLastModified: false
showInMenu: false
summary: "Trento 2.5 closes a first development cycle focused on observability and compliance."
summaryImage: "trento-2-5-thumbnail@2x.png"
author: "Alberto Bravo"
aliases: [ "release-2.5.0" ]
---

> Trento 2.5 closes a first development cycle focused on observability and compliance. Stay tuned for a new major version of Trento with the first operation use cases! Coming soon.

Reviewer: > Stay tuned for a new major version of Trento with the first operation use cases! Coming soon.

I'm not sure about this sentence: it makes it a bit ambiguous about which release we are talking about, the one we just released or a future one? Also "Stay tuned" might be misunderstood as "keep reading here".

Reviewer: As casual suggestion, maybe move this sentence at the end of the blog post and specifically reference 3.0 as the upcoming major, in-development, version that will introduce operations.
But feel free to do as you see fit.

Author: I am keeping this section of content consistent with the version on the official announcement... https://www.suse.com/c/announcing-trento-version-2-5/

![Cluster Detail for Hana Cost Optimized Scenario](discovery-of-hana-cost-optimized-clusters@2x.png)

# Checks Customization
The new version of Trento provides a more flexible Checks Catalog by allowing customers to customize checks in situations where there is a justified reason to depart from our Best Practices.

![Check Settings with Checks Customization](checks-customization@2x.png)

# Enhanced Activity Log
The activity log, which is the central point where users can review past actions and events, gets reinforced with the introduction of important enhancements such as search by metadata, auto refresh capabilities, severity information and permission-based access level.

![Activity Log with Enhancements](enhanced-activity-log@2x.png)

# More Flexible Prometheus Integration
In this new version, the IP address and the port that the node exporter is listening to can be specified in the corresponding agent configuration file, hence ensuring that the communication from Prometheus server to the node exporter works fine.

![Terminal with Prometheus Integration Message](more-flexible-prometheus-intergration@2x.png)

# Discovery Optimization in Edge-Case Scenarios

> Based on direct customer feedback, the new Trento version improves the discovery behavior in not supported or not recommended scenarios. For example, pacemaker clusters combining HANA and ASCS/ERS resources or not managed instances running on cluster nodes.

Reviewer: minor wording nit-picks
```suggestion
Based on direct customer feedback, the new Trento version improves the discovery behavior in unsupported or unexpected scenarios. For example, pacemaker clusters combining HANA and ASCS/ERS resources or non-managed instances running on cluster nodes.
```

# Are you wanting to upgrade or try out Trento?

> Follow the [instructions in our documentation](https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/trento/single-html/SLES-SAP-trento/index.html "Getting started with Trento Premium") to get started.

Reviewer: We shall remove any reference to "premium" or "community", there is only one Trento. :) 
```suggestion
Follow the [instructions in our documentation](https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/trento/single-html/SLES-SAP-trento/index.html "Getting started with Trento") to get started.
```
